All right, so in this lesson, we are going to learn about enemies, which is short for enumeration.
So an enum is a very special type of Java class that can represent a finite set of values.
These values will usually be related to each other in some way, like they will be a set.
Now, I'm not going to try to go into great detail in defining exactly what this means, because I think
it's best if I just show you instead.
So let's get into the A.D. and we're going to create a new project.
I'm also going to introduce you to another variation on how to create projects now that we've learned
a little bit about writing tests.
So in the A.D., let's go up to file new project.
And now we're going to do something a little different than we've done in the past.
We're going to create a new project, but normally we've been selecting Java here on the left.
This time around, we're still going to code in Java, by the way, but we're just going to build this
project a little bit differently.
This time we're going to make what is called a Gradle project.
And I will explain a little bit more about Gradle in a moment, but let's get this project created real
quick.
So we'll select Gradle, and you should have Java as the language that is selected over here and everything
else should be left alone.
And then you can click next.
And for the project name, let's call this blackjack.
All right.
And then you can click finish.
And I'm going to put mine in a new window.
Now, intelligence may take a little bit of time to get this project set up, and the way you can tell
that intelligence is working on it is that there will be these little progress icons here that are sort
of scrolling or whatever it is that they are doing.
So that's kind of letting you know that intelligence is busy.
I generally prefer to not try to do anything with the aid while that's happening because the project
may be in an unstable state until it's done.
However, it looks like on mine it is done now.
And so over here you'll see a few more files than we normally would have.
So you'll see the project name itself Black Jack and a few folders.
You'll see a source folder, which we've seen before, and then you'll see a main and a test folder,
though, so that's a little bit different.
And so one of the reasons that I wanted to have you create this project in this way is because up until
now, for the projects that we did in the test module, we were creating the main and test folders ourselves
and then configuring them.
But with Gradle, and there's another way to do this with MAVEN as well.
But when we build a Gradle project, we get these built automatically.
So for right now, that is one of the biggest reasons why I wanted to have you do this.
So let me talk just really briefly about Gradle and a related tool called MAVEN as well.
So as I mentioned in the test module, when we were first learning how to include J Unit as a library
dependency for our new projects, I mentioned that intelligence is actually downloading the J Unit library
from a well known repository on the internet, which is maintained by a project called MAVEN.
And I also mentioned that MAVEN is a tool which does a number of things, some of which are helping
us to manage and maintain third party library dependencies for our project.
So we saw that firsthand.
J Unit is a third party library, and we wanted that to become a dependency in some of our projects
in the testing module that we just recently finished.
So MAVEN gives us an easy way to declare what are the third party libraries that we want to depend on.
And then it makes it easy to pull those libraries into our project and manage them.
And not only just the names of them, but even the versions MAVEN and Gradle as well also make it easy
for us to build our projects in a way that is independent of whatever idea we may be using.
So while we in this course are using intelligence, there are lots and lots of Java developers who may
be using Eclipse or NetBeans or some other ADC.
And by using MAVEN or Gradle to manage building the project and managing its dependencies, we can be
completely independent from whatever idea we're using.
So these are just a few of the nice advantages of these tools now between Gradle and MAVEN.
In general, they both do roughly the same thing.
MAVEN is older than Gradle, and as such, it is probably the de facto standard in many ways.
I mean, even Gradle is making use of MAVEN's standards for where to keep the library dependencies.
The primary reason I opted to have you create this project using Gradle rather than MAVEN is honestly
because personally, I slightly prefer Gradle over MAVEN, though I spent many, many years as a huge
advocate for MAVEN as well.
Both tools require a configuration file in order to specify how to build your project and what its dependencies
should be.
But I find that Gradle configuration files tend to be more concise.
And furthermore, the J Unit dependency that we had to specify in the last few projects is in the same
format that Gradle uses, whereas MAVEN uses a slightly more verbose format, though that doesn't really
matter because the website that we learned about the dependency from MAVEN Repository can give us that
format in any number of ways.
All right, so that's all I want to say about MAVEN and Gradle for now.
So let's jump in here, though, and actually do some coding.
So here's the scenario.
Let's imagine again that we are going to make a blackjack game.
And as such, we need.
Who model the game of blackjack, and to my mind, one of the most fundamental concepts in blackjack
is the concept of a playing card, right?
An actual card and being that I am an object oriented programmer.
I am strongly inclined to want to model the concept of a playing card in code, right?
So let's just do that.
Let's go ahead and try modeling a playing card.
And don't worry, this is all leading up to a better understanding of what is an enum.
All right.
So what we're going to do here is let's go to this main folder here.
And if you expand it, I just clicked on the little greater than symbol there to expand this.
You'll see that there are a couple additional folders that we had not seen before.
We didn't create these in our previous projects, but MAVEN and Gradle create these.
By the way, this directory structure you're seeing here source main java and resources, etc..
This is a Java Project Directory standard that was really popularized by MAVEN.
OK, so much so that even Gradle chose to adopt it as its default.
OK?
All right.
So what we're going to do is to right click on this Java here.
Make sure you're under source main and not under test the OK.
So right click on Java.
Go to New Java class and we will create a new class.
But let's also created in its own package, so we'll specify the package name and the class name all
in one.
So I'm going to use my own companies domain name as the package name.
You're welcome to use the same, or you could use your name, your first name or whatever you want to
use.
It doesn't matter.
All right, so calmed neutrinos six dot.
Now I'm going to use the name of the Project Blackjack and then Dot and then the name of the actual
class that I want to create, which is I'm going to model a card.
So card.
All right.
So make sure that the package name that is.
Com Neutrino says blackjack is all lowercase, which is just the standard Java naming convention for
packages followed by a period and then the actual name of the class itself should be capitalized.
All right.
And when you have that hit return?
OK, now how do we model a playing card?
Well, to answer that question, we need to consider what are some of the core properties of a playing
card?
So sometimes when I'm modeling a new concept that I'm not 100 percent certain that I know at an expert
level, I may actually just Google for that concept and read a little bit about it in order to learn.
Well, what are some of the properties and attributes of that concept?
So I've actually done that here.
I've gone out and googled for information on playing cards.
And let me show you what I've found here.
So I went to one of my favorite resources in the world, which is Wikipedia, and I found an article
here on the standard 52 card deck.
So a deck of playing cards.
And down here, I see that a standard 52 card deck comprises 13 ranks in each of the four French suits,
clubs, diamonds, hearts and spades.
So here I see a graphical representation of that.
Let me zoom in here.
All right.
So 13 ranks ace and then numbers two through 10 and then Jack, Queen and king.
And then the suits are clubs, diamonds, hearts and spades.
So right there I have a notion that a playing card has at least two two core properties.
It has a rank and it has a suit.
So those are two properties that I would want to model in my card class.
So now the next question I need to ask myself is how best should I model these two concepts?
What data type should I use?
Now what's interesting here is if the rank consisted only of these numbers two through 10, I would
definitely use some type of an integer numeric data type, whether that's a byte or a short or an end,
whatever.
I would use a numeric data type.
However, things are complicated a bit by the fact that that's not all that can be.
Those are not the only values you can have for a rank.
We've also got Ace.
Jack, Queen and king, so I have to decide, OK, what data type do I want to use to model this concept?
And then I've got the similar question here for the suit.
You've got all names.
So I don't know.
At first blush, you might think, well, maybe just using a string would allow me to represent these
best.
So let's start with the suit and model that.
All right.
So I'm going to make a new line and I'm going to create a new field here and I'm going to make it a
string and I will call it suit.
OK.
All right.
And, you know, while we're at it, let's go ahead and model the rank as well.
So since I have to allow for both numbers and these names, I could model that as a string.
All right.
So yeah, let's just model the rank as a string and see see what that looks like.
So private string rank.
All right.
Now, when we're modeling, it's pretty standard in the Java world to create a constructor and getter
and setter method.
So let's go ahead and do that for Mac users.
You can do command in and then choose constructor for Windows and Linux users.
I think you may have to just right click and then choose Generate.
OK.
All right, so choose Constructor.
Now I'm going to make a constructor that allows me to set or initialize my card with these two properties
suit and rank.
So I'm going to select both of those, and I just did that with a command on Mac and I think a control
a on Windows and Linux and then click, OK.
All right.
So what that does is that generates this constructor.
Now, if you don't remember exactly what is a constructor for, it's basically a method that allows
you to initialize a newly created object, and we'll see this being used in just a moment.
All right.
And then we'll also create our getters and setters.
So again, I'm going to do a command in, and this time I'm going to go to getter setter and choose
that.
And then I'm going to choose both of the properties, their suit and rank and then click, OK.
And so that just generated four methods two for setting the suit and rank and then two for getting the
suit and rank out of an instance.
All right.
And again, these are just boilerplate standard things that we typically do in Java.
OK.
All right.
Going to minimize that?
So let's just see what this might look like to play with now.
Temporarily, we'll just do this with the public static void main.
All right.
So let's make a quick public static void main method SVM Return.
And now let's see what it would look like to create an instance of one of these cards.
So I'm going to create a card.
I'll call it card.
One equals new card, and right here we get to use the constructor.
So if you had forgotten what the constructor was for, it is this thing here.
When we're saying when we want to create a new instance of a class, right?
You say new and then the name of the class parentheses.
And so just like when you're calling a method, you have these parentheses and you can pass inputs,
right?
And since our constructor is expecting us to pass in the suit and the rank, that's what we have here
now.
Normally, most of the classes we've worked with didn't take any inputs for the constructor because
they were using what is called the no ARG default constructor.
But in this case, I've opted for now not to create a new ARG default constructor and just to get straight
to business.
It wouldn't make sense to be able to create one of these cards without it having a suit and a rank,
and therefore, in most cases, it probably doesn't make any sense to be able to create a card with
a no ARG default constructor.
All right, so we've got Sutin rank, so for the suit, we can specify something like clubs, diamonds,
hearts or spades.
So let's just do that.
Let's do clubs.
And then for the rank?
Let's do King.
All right.
So there's a card.
Now, let's imagine that we were going to make one more card.
Card two equals new card, and let's give this a diamond's suit and a rank of 10.
Now, let's imagine that these two cards.
Are in someone's hand.
Right, like these have been dealt to a player and the game needs to add up the values of these two
cards to determine whether or not they are below 21 or over 21.
If you remember the rules of blackjack, the rules are that each card has a value.
In fact, I'm sorry, let's review the rules real quick here.
OK, so the number cards have a value, which is the same as their actual number.
The ace card, though, has a slightly more complicated value.
Its value can be either one or 11, depending on whichever one is more advantageous to your hand than
the Jack, Queen and King.
Each have a value of 10.
OK.
And you're trying to get as close to a total value as twenty one with all the cards in your hand as
possible without going over 21.
And when you're playing against a dealer, the dealer also has a hand and you're trying to get a higher
score than the dealer without going over 21.
OK.
So if you already have a 10 and a nine, for example, so you've got 19 and then you get an ace, you
will not want that ace to be valued at 11, because that would put you well over 21.
You'd want that to be valued at one.
Right.
So there's a little bit of game logic there.
All right.
So that's a quick review on the rules of blackjack.
So going back over to the 80s now, it might be kind of cool if we could do something like either Card
one plus card two and then that might return an integer like total, right?
So that might be kind of cool to be able to do something like that.
Or maybe there could be another class which is called hand like, you know, your hand.
So when you are dealt cards in blackjack, the cards that you have in your possession are called your
hand.
OK.
So if you had a hand, I'll just show an example here, my hand.
We're going to pretend like we have this code if we don't have this code, but we're pretending like
we do.
All right.
So let's say you had a hand and then you could and then you could add card one.
And add card, too, and then finally, you could say something like my hand died, get total and maybe
that would return an integer like so of the total value of all of your cards in your hand.
And it would know the business logic to determine whether or not any aces that you have in your hand
should be valued at a one or an 11.
OK, so that would be some really nice logic to code into the program, right?
So here are some issues if we were to use a string to model the suit as we actually have done here.
One issue I can see is that you could simply have typos, right?
Like what if someone coded this and accidentally put, you know, misspelled the word club or intentionally
avoided using any of the suit names that are actually expected right?
And they put apples in here, which isn't one of the standard suits at all.
What would the program do?
Same thing goes for rank and in fact, for rank.
It's even worse, actually, right?
Because this is really where the value comes from.
So what if someone said Joker?
Joker is not one of the standard ranks, right?
What would the program logic do?
And so this brings us to the concept of an enum.
So typically, when we have a situation where you can have a property that can be set to a finite set
of values like here, we've got the suit, and the suit could be set to one of four possible values
and only four values.
And this set of four values will never change, right?
The game of cards has probably been around for hundreds and hundreds of years.
I don't know how long they've settled on these four values for a suit, but I'm guessing it's been hundreds
of years.
I'm guessing it's been a really long time.
Right?
So we can just assume these are never going to change for this game.
If they do, then that's not the same game anymore.
Same thing goes for the rinks, right?
This is a finite set of values that presumably will never change.
OK.
So when we have a situation like this, Inhumans can be a useful way to protect us from certain types
of mistakes and limit the range of values that we could possibly set for a property.
So here we're using a string, but if we could use an enum somehow and tell that enum that for a suit?
These are the only options I ever want to allow anyone to use.
Then we would make our code what is called type safe and prevent ourselves and other programmers from
setting that property to values that are invalid.
OK, so let's see how to do that.
So like I said, at the top, an enum is really a special form of a class.
So let's see how to create one.
All right.
So we'll go over here and we can just put it in this same package here.
So I'm going to right click on the com neutrino cis blackjack package and select new Java class.
So that's the first key you actually do.
Just get to this via the Java new Java class dialog.
Now here we can state what we're trying to create now.
Up until now, we've only been creating classes, right?
But now we're going to create an enum.
So this is a little hint right here that even in enum is basically some type of class.
And then for the name, this is where things get kind of cool.
We can actually name this based on the actual property concept here that we want to model.
So let's handle the suit.
OK, so we can create an enum called suit and just and we use the same rules of naming that we use with
a class.
So it should be capitalized.
OK, and then hit return.
All right.
So now we've got a new enum.
Now notice the structure of an enum.
It can have visibility just like a class can.
But instead of the keyword of class, we now have the keyword of Enum.
OK.
So that's one difference.
And then we have the actual name of the class, and then you have the curly braces, just like you do
with any other class.
All right.
Then I will make a new line now.
This is where things get a little different in the body of the class.
The main thing we will usually put in an enum body are what are basically thought of as constants.
And these will be the actual.
Values of the economy, so if we go back over here and look, the values that you can have for a suit
are clubs, diamonds, hearts and spades.
So we can actually create basically constants that reflect those same options here.
Typically, these will be all capitalized because they are closely associated with constants.
And as we've learned before, generally speaking in Java, constants are all caps.
So let's make clubs.
Now, the way we do this is we separate these by commas and frequently you'll see them each on their
own line.
So I'm going to do clubs comma and then a new line diamonds comma.
Hearts, karma.
And in spades and then to end this list, I will use a semicolon.
Now, if we go back over to the card class, here we can refactor this class to use this new enum instead
of a string for the suit.
And I'm going to teach you, there's a nice way to refactor this quickly in the ADC.
If you put your cursor on the data type for the property that you want to change the data type of.
So in this case, we're on the suit, which is currently a string.
So if you put your cursor on the word string here, you can right click on that go down to refactor
and choose type migration.
Or you can do a shift command F6 on Mack Type Migration.
So in other words, we want to change the data type.
All right.
So we're going to change it from a string.
Two and here can just type the name of the new data type that we just created, which is the enum suit.
So capital S.U. i t.
There it is, right there and then hit enter and then click refactor.
Now, the ID may warn you that it thinks there may be some problems with this refactoring.
Don't worry about that.
Just click ignore.
All right.
So now you see that that has changed the data type from string to suit everywhere where that data type
was being utilized.
So this is really nice.
Otherwise you would have had to go through and find all those spots and change it yourself.
Now, if we come down here to the main method, you now see that there's a red squiggly line here because
we're now trying to pass a string and that is not allowed.
So what you can do is click on this apples.
If you if you followed this with me and I'm going to select all of that and delete that.
And now what I can do is to set this value is I can type suit dot.
And now each of these constants automatically shows up.
So you see what's going on here.
I am now constrained in what I'm even allowed to specify for a suit, so it's not possible for me to
put some invalid value in here for the suit.
Right.
I am forced to specify a valid value.
So I've already forgotten what I had before, but I will choose clubs.
All right.
And then I'll do the same thing down here where I've got diamonds as a string, I'm selecting that I
will type suit and diamonds.
All right.
OK, and now we'll just do the same thing for the rank as well.
So let's create another enum.
I'll go back over here to package right click new Java Class Enum and then for the name, I will call
this rank Capital R return shift center to make a new line.
And now I will specify all of the values.
Now this one's going to be a little interesting since we've got both these string names for ranks as
well as these numbers here, right?
So what I probably would do in this case is to name each of these in a spelled out form so that they
kind of match up nicely with the other name types here so that we can avoid trying to use an actual
number as the name of those constants, which would likely be problematic.
OK.
So let's see what that will look like.
So we've got Ace then two three four five six seven eight nine ten.
And King followed by a semicolon at the end.
All right.
And so now I'll go back over to the card class and we'll do the same refactoring again.
I'll put my cursor here this time that I'll use the keyboard shortcut shift command ethics, and I will
change the data type from string to rank, return and then refactor.
And I will ignore the issue there.
And so that changed that data type.
And then I can come down here and then just change these strings to actual values of the Enum.
So for this one, I'll use a jack and for this one will replace that with a ten rank Typekit.
10.
There we go.
And now no more errors.
So let's just recap here.
One of the main benefits of using an enum in this case is that we now have strongly typed properties
that are even more strongly constrained to prevent us from using values that are not allowed or not
appropriate.
This technique is great whenever we have a finite set of values that we want to be constrained to,
and they're unlikely to change very frequently or ever, right?
So days of the week might be a good one month of the year might be a good one, although in those cases,
there are other classes that Java already has that probably can represent those concepts better than
anything we would, right?
But these are examples, right?
You know, so in the case of the days of the week, we're not likely to get an eighth day of the week
anytime soon, right?
So those would be great concepts to consider modeling as enemies.
All right.
So I'm going to wrap up this lesson.
And in the next one, we will continue forward because there's a lot that you can actually do with Enum,
so I will see you in the next one.